JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
MILES O'BRIEN: And I'm Miles
O'Brien.
JUDY WOODRUFF: On the "NewsHour"
tonight:
JOHN KELLY, Homeland Security
Secretary: We
knew it was coming, from like,
two years ago,
when Mr. Trump first started to
run for president.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The Trump
administration rejects
reports of internal confusion
over the controversial
immigration order.
MILES O'BRIEN: Also ahead this
Tuesday, we
ask a key question: Does the
temporary ban
make us safer?
JUDY WOODRUFF: And the nation
awaits Mr. Trump's
pick to fill the almost
year-long vacant seat
on the Supreme Court.
MILES O'BRIEN: All that and more
on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: President Trump
is preparing
to take up the next big item on
his agenda
tonight: revealing his nominee
to fill the
vacancy on the U.S. Supreme
Court.
He will address the nation at
8:00 p.m. Eastern
time.
It is widely reported that two
federal appeals
court judges, Neil Gorsuch and
Thomas Hardiman,
top the list of candidates.
The announcement comes amid the
uproar over
Mr. Trump's immigration
moratorium, and a
high-level ouster at the Justice
Department.
John Yang begins our coverage.
JOHN YANG: A night of political
drama at the
White House gave way to a day of
defending
President Trump's actions.
White House Press Secretary Sean
Spicer:
SEAN SPICER, White House Press
Secretary:
For the attorney general to turn
around and
say, I'm not going to uphold
this lawful executive
order, is clearly a dereliction
of duty.
And she should've been removed,
and she was.
JOHN YANG: Acting Attorney
General Sally Yates,
an Obama appointee, was fired
after directing
Justice Department lawyers not
to defend the
president's immigration order.
"At present," she wrote them, "I
am not convinced
that the defense of the
executive order is
consistent with my
responsibilities, nor am
I convinced that the executive
order is lawful."
Spicer insisted Justice's Office
of Legal
Counsel did find the order
lawful.
SEAN SPICER: That doesn't sound
like an attorney
general that is upholding the
duty that she
swore to uphold.
But at the end of the day, the
attorney general
either had a problem with her
own division
approving something, but it
wasn't the president
she had a problem with.
The president followed the
process.
JOHN YANG: Meanwhile, Homeland
Security Secretary
John Kelly dismissed reports
that he was kept
in the dark about the
immigration order.
JOHN KELLY, Homeland Security
Secretary: I
knew this was under development,
and I think
we were in pretty good shape in
how it was
implemented by the work force.
JOHN YANG: The New York Times
had reported
Kelly wasn't fully briefed until
the order
was being signed on Friday, and
that Defense
Secretary James Mattis wasn't
consulted until
just hours earlier.
JOHN KELLY: From day one, in
terms of the
inauguration, finishing touches,
I would have
to put it that way, were being
put on the
executive order.
As I say, high-level folks in
the government,
attorneys as well, were part of
that.
People on my staff were
generally involved.
JOHN YANG: But the acting
commissioner of
customs and border protection,
Kevin McAleenan,
conceded today the order's
implementation
could have been better.
KEVIN MCALEENAN, Acting
Commissioner of Customs
and Border Protection:
Communications, publicly
and interagency, haven't been
the best in
the initial rollout of this
process.
We have communicated with the
Department of
State now.
Again, these guidelines will be
on our Web
site.
JOHN YANG: McAleenan said his
agency had to
create a waiver process for
holders of green
card and special visas after the
order took
effect.
At the Capitol, House Speaker
Paul Ryan said
top Republicans weren't briefed
on the executive
order was being signed.
REP.
PAUL RYAN (R-WI), Speaker of the
House: I
think it's regrettable that
there was some
confusion on the rollout of
this.
No one wanted to see people with
green cards
or special immigration visas
like translators
get caught up in all of this.
JOHN YANG: Press Secretary
Spicer dismissed
reports that the White House
handling of the
immigration order had created
tensions with
congressional Republicans.
Throughout it all, Mr. Trump
spent most of
his day in meetings.
This morning, he urged
executives from major
pharmaceutical companies to cut
prices.
Today, the White House also said
the president
will continue President Obama's
order barring
discrimination by federal
employers and contractors
based on sexual orientation and
gender identity.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm John
Yang at the
White House.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The president
also faces another
legal challenge tonight.
San Francisco has filed suit
against his order
on so-called sanctuary cities.
It cuts off federal aid to
cities that shelter
undocumented immigrants.
MILES O'BRIEN: In the day's
other news: Senate
Democrats forced delays on three
of the president's
Cabinet nominees.
The Judiciary Committee had
planned to vote
on Republican Senator Jeff
Sessions to be
attorney general.
Instead, the committee meeting
grew contentious
in the wake of last night's
firing of the
acting attorney general.
SEN.
DIANNE FEINSTEIN (D),
California: We clearly
saw what a truly independent
attorney general
does.
I have no confidence that
Senator Sessions
will do that.
Instead, he has been the
fiercest, most dedicated,
and most loyal promoter in
Congress of the
Trump agenda.
SEN.
CHARLES GRASSLEY (R), Iowa:
Everyone on this
committee, be they Republican or
Democrat,
knows Senator Sessions to be a
man of integrity
and a man of his word.
Because we know him to be a man
of his word,
we know that he will uphold and
enforce all
laws equally.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Meanwhile,
Democrats on the
Finance Committee blocked action
on the nominee
Steve Mnuchin to be treasury
secretary and
Tom Price for Health and Human
Services.
The nominee for secretary of
education, Betsy
DeVos, squeaked through the
Senate Education
Committee.
It was 12 to 11, down party
lines.
But two Republicans, Lisa
Murkowski of Alaska
and Susan Collins of Maine,
warned that they
still have serious concerns.
SEN.
SUSAN COLLINS (R), Maine: I was
surprised
and concerned about Mrs. DeVos'
apparent lack
of familiarity with the landmark
1975 law
IDEA that guarantees a free and
appropriate
education for children with
special needs.
SEN.
LISA MURKOWSKI (R), Alaska: When
each of us
have the opportunity to vote aye
or nay on
the floor, I wouldn't advise
that she yet
count on my vote.
MILES O'BRIEN: Three more
Cabinet nominees
advanced to the full Senate
today for confirmation
votes.
The Energy Committee approved
Montana Congressman
Ryan Zinke as interior
secretary, and former
Texas Governor Rick Perry as
energy secretary.
And the Small Business Committee
endorsed
Linda McMahon to run the Small
Business Administration.
Meanwhile, Elaine Chao was sworn
in as transportation
secretary, shortly after being
confirmed by
the Senate.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Our Lisa
Desjardins has spent
much of the day at the Capitol,
watching the
to-and-fro over President
Trump's Cabinet
choices.
And she joins me now.
Lisa, welcome.
So what is the strategy behind
the Democrats'
tactics in slowing down,
delaying these nominations?
®MD+IT-MD-IT-LISA DESJARDINS:
The truth
is, it depends on each
committee.
As you reported earlier, it
seems the ones
who are the most indefinitely
delayed are
treasury secretary nominee Steve
Mnuchin and
also HHS nominee Tom Price.
We don't know when they will
come up for a
vote.
Democrats say they want to talk
to them again.
They want more answers to
questions.
That's in limbo right now.
At the same time, attorney
general nominee
Jeff Sessions looks like he will
get a vote
tomorrow.
But all this delay in the end
might not matter.
It's really things like you
report on, on
Betsy DeVos.
Do they have enough Republican
votes to be
confirmed?
JUDY WOODRUFF: Which we're
watching.
So how are the Republicans
responding to this?
LISA DESJARDINS: Right.
They say that this is bad acting
on the part
of Democrats.
They say this is Democrats being
sore losers,
in the word of one Republican.
But on the other hand, Democrats
say they
are playing hardball, and that
they are reacting
to President Trump's refugee
order.
They say that he is now
unleashing a new kind
of aggressive executive power
that they are
reacting to in the Senate.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, Lisa, how
are the Republicans
dealing with that?
And does it have implications
for the Supreme
Court nominee coming?
LISA DESJARDINS: I didn't get a
lot of answers
from Republicans tonight as to
how can they
get these nominees to the Senate
floor without
going through some of these
committees?
They say they're working on it,
but the truth
is, I don't know of a way they
can do it without
Democratic votes.
So that's to be determined.
But I think, in the end, it's a
political
calculus on both sides, and the
Supreme Court
nominee will be a huge factor in
this.
Republicans are, in a way,
daring Democrats
to try and block the Supreme
Court nominee.
Democrats seem to be ready to do
it.
We will see if Republicans, as
John McCain
told me tonight, are willing to
change the
vote count to only 50 votes for
a Supreme
Court nominee.
They say they're open to that at
this point.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Huh.
Well, that would be a story for
all of us
to cover.
LISA DESJARDINS: Yes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Lisa Desjardins,
thank you.
LISA DESJARDINS: Thank you.
MILES O'BRIEN: In Eastern
Ukraine, heavy new
fighting has erupted, with at
least eight
people killed overnight.
Ukrainian troops and
Russian-backed rebels
dueled with artillery and
rockets on the outskirts
of Donetsk.
It appears to be the worst
shelling in many
months, and it briefly trapped
hundreds of
coal miners underground.
Ukraine's president blamed
Moscow.
PETRO POROSHENKO, Ukrainian
President (through
translator): Our servicemen are
successfully
defending their positions.
The only restriction is when
criminals, Russian
rebels, deploy artillery
systems, tanks and
multiple missile rocket
launchers in residential
areas.
We have clear evidence of that.
MILES O'BRIEN: The Ukrainian
military and
Russian-backed rebels each blame
the other
for launching the offensive.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Back in this
country, the Boy
Scouts of America now says that
it will accept
transgender children who
identify as boys.
In a statement last night, the
organization
said its existing approach is --
quote -- "no
longer sufficient," as
communities and state
laws are interpreting gender
identity differently.
The Girl Scouts organization has
accepted
transgender members for years.
MILES O'BRIEN: Tonight marks the
deadline
for Americans to sign up for
health insurance
under the Affordable Care Act.
It affects 39 states served by
healthcare.gov.
States with their own insurance
Web sites
set their own deadlines.
President Trump and
congressional Republicans
have promised to repeal and
replace Obamacare.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And on Wall
Street today, subpar
earnings from Goldman Sachs,
Boeing and others
weighed on stocks.
The Dow Jones industrial average
lost 107
points to close at 19864.
The Nasdaq rose a point, but the
S&P 500 slipped
two.
MILES O'BRIEN: Still to come on
the "NewsHour":
the contenders for President
Trump's Supreme
Court nominee; universities warn
international
students not to leave the
country; and a music
job that women rarely hold.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Many questions
remain about
President Trump's executive
order temporarily
prohibiting citizens of seven
majority Muslim
countries from entering the U.S.
Perhaps chief
among these questions: Does it
make us any
safer?
Both today and yesterday, White
House Press
Secretary Sean Spicer fielded
queries from
reporters.
QUESTION: Some of the countries
that have
problems with terrorism are not
on the list.
SEAN SPICER, White House Press
Secretary:
Right, and we're reviewing the
entire process
over this period of time to make
sure that
we do this right.
But I don't think you have to
look any further
than the families of the Boston
Marathon in
Atlanta, in San Bernardino, to
ask if we can
go further.
There's obviously steps that we
can and should
be taking, and I think the
president is going
to continue do to what he can to
make sure
that this country is as safe as
possible.
QUESTION: There are some people
obviously
critical of the fact that you
have countries
like, for example, mentioned,
Saudi Arabia
or Afghanistan, where we have
had attacks
on U.S. soil with connections to
those countries.
So, do you foresee those being
added?
SEAN SPICER: So, are you asking,
what is our
concern with their reaction to
us?
QUESTION: Absolutely.
SEAN SPICER: Yes.
Look, I think the president's
number one goal
is the protection and safety of
the United
States and its people.
If they want to act in a way
that's inconsistent
with their concerns, then that's
up to them
to do it as a sovereign nation.
But it is our duty and it is his
duty to make
sure that this country and its
people are
protected first and foremost.
It can't be a ban if you're
letting a million
people in.
If 325,000 people from another
country can't
come in, that is by nature not a
ban.
It is extreme vetting.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, is this
policy effective?
Does it make U.S. citizens
safer?
For one perspective, I am joined
now by Michael
Leiter.
He was the director of the
National Counterterrorism
Center from 2007 to 2011, during
both the
George W. Bush and Obama
administrations.
Michael Leiter, welcome back to
the program.
What's your general reaction to
what Sean
Spicer is saying is the White
House rationale
for this?
MICHAEL LEITER, Former Director,
National
Counterterrorism Center: Well, I
think, as
a general matter, it misses the
point that
much of this vetting is already
going on.
And so the question is, why stop
it now?
What are we going to add?
And if the goal is to have a
zero-defect system,
that no one will ever come to
the U.S. who
later poses a danger to U.S.
citizens, then
there's really only one way to
accomplish
that, and that is to permanently
shut down
all immigration.
And the fact is, we can't do
that.
We wouldn't do that.
We have to make smart judgments
based on facts
about how we vet people, where
we vet people,
and where the threat really
comes from.
So, based on all of those
things, I really
don't see this right now as
being an effective
counterterrorism tool.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, you're
referring, among
other things, to the fact that a
number of
the terrorist incidents that
have taken place
in this country, a number of
them were on
the part of people who had been
living here
for a number of years.
MICHAEL LEITER: That's right.
Since 2001, 82 percent of fatal
attacks in
the United States from Sunni
extremist terrorism,
violent Islamic extremists, have
been legal
permanent residents or citizens.
And the others weren't from
these seven countries.
So, by shutting down, at least
temporarily,
immigration from these
countries, it's a little
bit like closing the barn door,
but it's not
even the barn door where the
horse came from.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, Michael, when
the White
House is asked why these seven
countries,
they say, well, these were
countries that
were identified by President
Obama.
And this is when -- at a time
when you were
in office -- they're saying
2011.
They were identified at that
time as being
countries of concern.
What's the difference between
what happened
under President Obama and what
they're doing
now?
MICHAEL LEITER: Well, there is
some truth
there.
These seven countries do
represent countries
where there's a serious
terrorism threat.
But this -- these countries
really grew out
of the Paris attacks.
And that issue involved people
from European
countries who didn't need a
visa, immigration
visa at all.
They were from visa waiver
countries who could
just travel to the U.S.
And under the Obama
administration, if people,
say, from the United Kingdom
traveled to Yemen,
then they would have to apply
for a visa.
What this order did was import
those countries
to which people were traveling
and saying
anyone traveling from those
countries, there's
going to be a pause.
So I think there's some
correlation, but it's
really using it for a very, very
different
purpose.
And it misses, again, what the
greatest threat
was, which is people coming from
visa waiver
countries where the reviews are
much less.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, again, visa
waiver countries
being countries we normally
think of as friendly,
our allies, in Europe, other
parts of the
world, where there is a
government not viewed
as a threat.
MICHAEL LEITER: That's exactly
right.
There are really three ways to
get into the
United States, a visa waiver
country, the
U.K., Germany, France, where we
have very
close ties and share
information.
They don't have to apply.
They don't get interviewed.
Visa countries, like these
seven, where people
are already being vetted, quite
extremely,
I would say.
And then refugees, which really
fall into
a special category and who get
special attention.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, when they say
these are
all designed to make the United
States safer,
to make American citizens safer,
the answer
is?
MICHAEL LEITER: I think the
answer on these
countries is, I don't see it.
And we have to remember the ways
in which
this alienates the people with
whom we have
to partner, domestically and
internationally.
It's the Muslim community in the
U.S., which
helps us identify terrorists and
radicalized
individuals and stop them.
And, critically, it's the
international partners
that we need help from in the
Middle East
and in majority Muslim nations
who I fear
will be alienated by some of
these steps.
JUDY WOODRUFF: You mentioned the
vetting process
that already takes place, that
was taking
place through the Obama
administration.
I was reading a piece just today
or yesterday
citing at least 20 different
steps that someone
has to take if they want to
enter the United
States from one of these
countries considered
suspect.
How would you go about
tightening -- just
how tight is that process?
And how would you go about
tightening it,
making it more -- stricter?
MICHAEL LEITER: Well, it's hard
to figure
out, quite honestly, Judy.
And that's in part because it
has been constantly
improved.
It was good in 2001, after 9/11.
It wasn't perfect.
And after 2011 and the underwear
bomber, the
Christmas Day bomber, it was
tightened more.
But, today, every individual who
is applying
for a visa, they go through
biographical checks
from all of the national
security agencies,
the FBI, DHS and CIA.
They have biometric checks,
fingerprints.
And they're finally interviewed
before they
even get that visa.
And then they undergo additional
screening
while they're traveling.
So it is pretty severe.
And in the cases of refugees
coming out of
Syria, it is even more severe.
And they have already been
screened by the
U.N. before handed over to the
U.S.
And in those cases, we're
generally not talking
about what would be known in our
circles as
military-age males, the ones
you're most concerned
with becoming terrorists.
In the case of Syrian refugees,
that's less
than 2 percent of the
population.
JUDY WOODRUFF: One other
argument I have heard
the administration make is that
these individuals
come from places where they
can't -- the U.S.
can't believe what their
government says about
whether they -- about their
background, that
it's either a chaotic situation,
disorganized
situation, or a government that
the U.S. would
have no reason to trust.
MICHAEL LEITER: There's no doubt
that some
cases like Syria make it more
difficult.
But I think the one you just
repeated was
really exaggerating how hard it
is.
We still have lots of databases.
We have lots of information.
We know e-mail addresses.
We know phone numbers.
And searching those against the
wealth of
collection that the U.S.
intelligence community
has can make connections that
are important.
Further steps that have been
improved over
the past several years involve
looking at
people's social media profile.
That's really important to
understand.
We do have to demand that
countries from which
these people are coming are
cooperating with
the United States.
That should be part of the visa
process.
So I think that's an important
step, that
we demand from these countries
that they provide
with us information.
But the idea that we simply
can't get data
about these people, I think,
misunderstands
how the intelligence community
and the vetting
system has worked since 9/11.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Michael Leiter,
thank you very
much.
MICHAEL LEITER: Great to be
here, Judy.
Thanks.
MILES O'BRIEN: Aside from the
national security
concerns, the president's
executive order
has ignited a fierce debate on
its legality
and constitutionality.
We get two views, from Neal
Katyal, a former
acting solicitor general under
President Obama,
and Jonathan Turley, a law
professor at George
Washington University.
Jonathan, let's begin with you.
Let's talk about the law, 1965
Immigration
and Nationality Act.
What does it say, and how might
it impact
this executive order?
JONATHAN TURLEY, Constitutional
Attorney,
George Washington University:
Well, I think
it can have an impact.
There's no question that the law
says that
you cannot discriminate on the
basis of nationality
or place of origin.
And that certainly helps the
challengers.
But like much else in this
debate, much of
that law has been distorted.
It only takes you so far.
First of all, the law doesn't
apply to refugees.
It applies to immigrants.
It's used when you have visa
issues.
Also, it doesn't cover religious
discrimination.
Also, in 1990, the act was
amended to exclude
procedural changes as a form of
discrimination.
And that reduces the use of the
1965 law,
I think, as a serious challenge.
And also it means that much of
that order,
as they challenge, doesn't fall
under the
law.
So even if one aspect might be
challenged
successfully, the other aspects
of the order
would remain.
Federal courts have a
longstanding policy
to minimize the degree to which
they strike
down a piece of legislation or
executive authority.
MILES O'BRIEN: Neal, the way the
Immigration
and Nationality Act is written,
it mentioned
an individual's place of birth
or place of
residence.
It doesn't mention religion
specifically.
The executive order seemed to be
narrowly
tailored, trying to avoid the
use of the word
religion.
So, in effect, did they write an
executive
order which would run afoul of
this law?
NEAL KATYAL, Former Acting U.S.
Solicitor
General: Oh, they did.
And don't be distracted by what
you just heard
from my friend Jonathan.
So -- but let me read the law,
first of all
-- quote -- "No person shall
receive any preference
or priority or be discriminated
against in
the issuance of an immigrant
visa because
of nationality."
Now, this is most of what the
executive order
does, discriminates on the basis
of nationality.
Forget about the refugee
provision.
It's about green card holders.
It's about anyone who is
applying for a visa,
a student, an employee of a
company.
You know, it applies broadly.
Now, of course, it doesn't reach
religious
discrimination.
That's reached by the
Constitution, a separate
problem with the act.
So you have got two different
things.
We have got, it violates the
statute and it
violates the Constitution.
And President Trump's advisers
are pretending
that this is 1952, in which this
1965 law
didn't exist.
But, unfortunately, it does.
This is landmark legislation
passed contemporaneously
with the Voting Rights Act.
And it is just blatantly illegal
under that
law.
MILES O'BRIEN: All right, I feel
like I need
a gavel and a black robe here,
gentlemen.
Let's talk about the
Constitution for just
a moment, if we could.
First Amendment, very important
amendment,
as we all know, the
Establishment Clause.
Jonathan, it seems on the face
of it that
you could make a pretty good
argument that
this runs afoul of the
Establishment Clause,
which basically says the United
States doesn't
get in the business of choosing
religions.
JONATHAN TURLEY: Well, I think
the most vulnerable
aspect of the order is the one
that gives
preference to minority
religions, and those
people that were persecuted
under them.
That certainly is the weakest
spot.
But I'm still skeptical about
whether you
could make a successful
establishment claim.
There's a lot of cases that have
to be moved
aside to get from here to there
if you want
to strike down this law.
It is true there's establishment
issues, but
there's also plenary power in
the hands of
a president.
MILES O'BRIEN: All right, so the
administration
is trying to be very clear about
saying this
is not a Muslim ban.
But let's listen to candidate
Trump December
a year ago, when he first rolled
out this
idea.
DONALD TRUMP (R), President of
the United
States: Donald J. Trump is
calling for a total
and complete shutdown of Muslims
entering
the United States until our
country's representatives
can figure out what the hell is
going on.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
MILES O'BRIEN: OK.
And then, last Sunday, Rudy
Giuliani, close
adviser to President Trump in
the campaign
and through the transition, said
this:
RUDY GIULIANI (R), Former Mayor
of New York:
We focused on, instead religion,
danger.
It's not based on religion.
It's based on places where there
are substantial
evidence that people are sending
terrorists
into our country.
MILES O'BRIEN: OK, counselor, so
you're arguing
this case.
Are those comments admissible?
NEAL KATYAL: Absolutely.
And here's the thing.
When I was -- my last job was
the chief litigation
officer for the federal
government.
And I made -- I made -- took use
of all the
precedents that Jonathan was
talking about
broad power in immigration.
Nothing extends as far as what
the president
has done.
This is religious
discrimination.
And here's what the Supreme
Court has said
about that -- quote -- "The
clearest command
of the First Amendment is that
one religious
denomination can't be officially
preferred
to another."
This executive order prefers
Christians to
Muslims.
You have got it.
The president himself said so
contemporaneously
when he issued the executive
order to the
Christian Broadcast Network.
This is just un-American and
unconstitutional.
MILES O'BRIEN: Jonathan,
then-candidate Trump
and his adviser, Rudy Giuliani,
more recently,
did they undermine their own
case?
JONATHAN TURLEY: Well, they
certainly undermined
their case.
I mean, the Justice Department
attorneys are
in fetal positions every time
someone like
this speaks about the purpose of
a law.
But the longstanding view of the
Justice Department
has been what legislators say
about a law
as to the motivation of the law
is not controlling.
I have been in cases where the
Justice Department
has maintained that position,
that you have
to look at the law as to whether
it's lawful
or constitutional.
The court doesn't make
assumptions about -- or
speculation about the
motivations behind the
law.
If the law has an otherwise bona
fide purpose,
the courts tend to go with that.
I don't see a court, any court
saying that
what a candidate said on the
trail is going
to be material in terms of
whether this law
is struck down.
And I'm surprised that Neal even
suggests
that.
I have been in cases where those
types of
arguments have been raised, and
courts have
shot it down.
For example, what if -- I mean,
Trump clearly
said that.
But he then gave this law to
someone to draft,
and they came back with a law
that is not
a Muslim ban.
Now, I don't like the law, but I
don't think
any court is going to look at
this law and
say it's a Muslim ban, because
it's not.
There's plenty to object about
this law without
making it something it's not.
It doesn't ban all Muslims.
Now, I know people don't like to
say that
because they -- sort of like
Richard III,
you want to think of your
enemies as worse
than they are.
You don't have to think about
this law as
worse than it is.
It is not a Muslim ban on a
legal basis.
MILES O'BRIEN: But, if it walks
like a duck,
talks like a duck, et cetera,
isn't this legal
parsing that they have come to
this executive
order?
And when you look at the context
and the comments,
you have to come to the
conclusion that at
least religion was on their
minds in some
fashion.
NEAL KATYAL: Oh, religion was
more than on
their minds.
I think Jonathan is just wrong.
This is a First Amendment
religion challenge
in which the motivations of the
law will be
looked to, and courts do so.
And that's particularly
underscored here,
because what has the new defense
of this law
been by the White House?
It's, oh, we're not focused on
religion.
We're focused on security.
MILES O'BRIEN: All right, much
to discuss
here.
Just in a word, going to the
Supreme Court?
Will this end up at the Supreme
Court?
NEAL KATYAL: No, I think this is
indefensible,
and I think that the Justice
Department, after
they lose in district court
after district
court, won't bring this even to
the Court
of Appeals.
I certainly wouldn't have if I
were in the
government.
MILES O'BRIEN: Jonathan, Supreme
Court case?
JONATHAN TURLEY: It could go to
the Supreme
Court, but you have to be
careful what you
ask for.
We're going to get a new nominee
to that court,
and might not be the type of
court you want
to appeal this case, if you're
with the ACLU.
MILES O'BRIEN: Neal Katyal,
Jonathan Turley,
thank you both very much.
NEAL KATYAL: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We return now to
the Supreme
Court and President Trump's
much-anticipated
choice to be announced tonight.
For that, we are joined by
Elizabeth Wydra,
president of the progressive
Constitutional
Accountability Center, Michael
Carvin, former
deputy assistant attorney
general in the Office
of Legal Counsel during the
Reagan administration.
He's now in private practice.
Marcia Coyle, chief Washington
correspondent
for "The National Law Journal"
and our "NewsHour"
regular.
And we hope to be joined shortly
by Tom Goldstein,
founder of SCOTUSblog.com.
And we welcome all of you to the
program.
So, Marcia, I'm going to start
with you.
We keep hearing that it's down
to two individuals.
This is after 21 names that
President Trump
gave us back during the campaign
last May.
What are we to make of the
finalists, if that's
what they are?
How are they different from the
long list
we originally saw?
MARCIA COYLE, "The National Law
Journal":
Well, I think the original list
really did
contain very solid conservative
judges on
it, either on federal appellate
courts and
even on some state Supreme
Courts.
The two now that we're focused
on, Judge Gorsuch,
who is in Colorado, and Judge
Hardiman, who
is from Pennsylvania -- he sits
in Pittsburgh
-- Gorsuch sits in Denver, I
believe.
They are -- they have risen to
the top, I
think, especially because they
seem closest
to Justice Scalia's
jurisprudence.
Judy, if you recall, President
Trump said
during the campaign that he
wanted to appoint
someone who was like Justice
Scalia, the late
Justice Scalia.
I think that Judge Gorsuch
really is closest
to Justice Scalia in his
approach to judging.
I think all of the finalists
would have considered
themselves close to Justice
Scalia as originalists
and textualists.
But Judge Gorsuch is really
probably the most
-- has been the most vocal and
most passionate
about using originalism and
textualism to
interpret the Constitution and
statutes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Michael Carvin,
how would you
separate these two, if that's
who they are,
the finalists, from that long
list that we
originally saw?
MICHAEL CARVIN, Former Deputy
Assistant Attorney
General: Well, to echo what
Marcia said, they'd
both be worthy successors to
Scalia.
They share the same approach tot
law, which
is to interpret the law
according to its text
and structure, and not impose
your own personal
values, to act as an umpire, not
as a legislator.
I think Judge Gorsuch probably
digs a little
deeper into the law and is more
vocal, if
you will, about the virtues of
originalism.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Deeper than?
MICHAEL CARVIN: Judge Hardiman,
the other
candidate from Pittsburgh, which
is no way
to suggest that Judge Hardiman
is not an excellent
lawyer, which he certainly is.
It's just that I think Judge
Gorsuch perhaps
has stood out among the current
federal judiciary,
because he takes a very
intellectual, very
deep-seated approach to why
originalism is
correct and how you get to the
correct answers.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Elizabeth Wydra,
what would
you add to looking at these two
who appear
to be the finalists?
ELIZABETH WYDRA, Constitutional
Accountability
Center: Yes, I think whichever
one is the
nominee, we're going to be look
very closely
to see whether he is someone who
will apply
the Constitution and its
guarantees of equality
and justice for all, indeed, to
all people,
not just those who look like him
or have the
same amount of money in their
bank account
or who pray like him.
President Trump made a statement
that he thought
his nominee would represent
Christians fairly,
which, obviously, is a little
bit concerning,
given that Supreme Court
justices, first of
all, are not supposed to anyway,
and certainly
not one religion over another.
And I think, also, we will be
looking, especially
in this moment where we have
seen just over
the past few days how important
the courts
are as a check upon
unconstitutional violations
from the elected branches, we
will be looking
to see whether the nominee is
someone who
can serve as that check, even
against policies
of the president who is going to
be putting
him on that bench.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Tom Goldstein is
joining us
now from Los Angeles.
Tom, welcome.
So, what do you look for
tonight?
We have been talking about what
it is that
characterizes these two apparent
finalists,
Judge Gorsuch and Judge
Hardiman.
What do you see?
What are you looking for?
TOM GOLDSTEIN, Founder,
SCOTUSblog.com: Well,
I think that the president
really is going
to get a lot of credit from
conservatives.
I think that probably the big
difference is
just the cases that they have
heard.
Judge Gorsuch has heard more
cases about religious
liberty, whereas Judge Hardiman
has heard
more cases related to guns.
And both those issues appeal to
conservatives
who are very concerned about the
Supreme Court.
I think we're going to see more
drama from
President Trump than we usually
see in rollouts
related to the Supreme Court.
And then we're going to hear a
lot of sound
and fury that will ultimately
probably amount
to nothing, because Republicans
simply have
the power, between the
presidency and the
Senate, to get through
essentially anyone.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, Marcia Coyle,
is that how
you see it, that a lot of drama,
but in the
end the president and his
allies, Republican
allies, are pretty much going to
get what
they want?
MARCIA COYLE: I think it's
probably true.
I'm not quite sure really what
the Democrats'
thinking will be at this point.
I know that there are some
Democrats who would
like to block any nomination at
this point,
because they're very angry about
the way President
Obama's nominee, Judge Merrick
Garland, was
treated in the Senate.
He had -- the Senate Republicans
refused to
hold hearings or a vote on that
nomination.
So they see it as sort of
payback: Maybe we
should block this one.
On the other hand, Senate
Republicans -- sorry
-- Senate Democratic Leader
Chuck Schumer
has said, we're going to look
and see if the
nominee is within the
mainstream.
If he's not within the
mainstream, then we
will block or try to block.
And I guess it will depend on
how he defines
mainstream, mainstream of what.
So, I think it's going to be
interesting.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Michael Carvin,
how does one
define mainstream when it comes
down to individuals
like these judges?
MICHAEL CARVIN: Well, Chuck
Schumer defines
it as a judge who will impose
Democratic policies
on the country and twist the law
to accomplish
that.
So, I think -- I guarantee you
that he won't
think anybody on Trump's list is
within the
mainstream.
I think they will engage in the
sort of massive
resistance that they have
already been engaging
in during the Trump presidency.
And, unfortunately, you're going
to see a
lot of this personal
demagoguery, attacking
fine people as not being
sufficiently committed
to civil rights and the like.
It doesn't make a lot of sense
objectively,
because, remember, this is
replacing Scalia.
So, it's not as if this
replacement can move
the court more to the right than
it is.
The court right now is quite
liberal in terms
of gay marriage and affirmative
action and
other issues.
So, all you're doing is
preserving the status
quo of a relatively liberal
court.
Nonetheless, I think, partially
because of
the Garland issue, the Democrats
are going
to make this a lot of sound and
fury.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The Garland issue
being Merrick
-- again, as Marcia Coyle said,
Merrick Garland,
who President Obama picked
almost a year ago,
and the Republicans said they
weren't going
to hold hearings for him.
Elizabeth Wydra, do you see the
court, as
Michael Carvin just described
it, as pretty
much on the liberal end of the
spectrum?
ELIZABETH WYDRA: Well, I think
it would have
been if Merrick Garland,
perhaps, had been
confirmed, as he should have
been.
But it's a conservative court.
The Roberts court is led by
conservative justices,
which is not to say that they
don't sometimes
rule in liberal ways, in more
progressive
ways that conform with the
Constitution's
text and history.
But I think there's going to be
a focus on
this nominee no matter what,
because every
justice on the court is
important.
And, in fact, the integrity of
the court as
an independent arbiter of what
the Constitution
is, and the pinnacle of our
independent judiciary,
which will make sure that the
Constitution's
structural provisions are
respected, so this
justice is important.
And I think there is a chance
that we are
going to have a real fight to
make sure that
this nominee doesn't share the,
frankly, authoritarian
views that the president has
exhibited.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Michael -- I'm
sorry, Tom Goldstein,
how do you see the court?
Whether it is Judge Gorsuch or
Judge Hardiman
or someone else, if it's all
been -- because
we don't know for sure.
The White House hasn't confirmed
that they're
the finalists.
But if it's one of these, how
does the court
shift?
What do you see?
TOM GOLDSTEIN: Well, I don't
think the court
ask does shift very much.
I think the court's considerably
more conservative
than Michael Carvin describes.
But he's quite right to say, in
the main,
you're probably looking at
somebody who is
a lot like Justice Scalia.
But what does happen is, you
extend that for
a generation.
You're talking about someone who
is likely
to be on the court for a
quarter-century or
more.
And so it locks in whatever the
ideology of
the court is now in a really
important way
and it avoids a shift to the
court on the
left that Elizabeth Wydra
described.
The other thing is, you just --
it changes
when you're a judge and you
become a justice.
You get freed from a lot of the
constraints
of existing precedent.
So nobody ought to say with
great confidence
what any of these judges will do
when they're
a Supreme Court justice.
Conservative Republicans have
gotten a lot
better about not putting on
somebody who is
squishy, who might move a lot.
But it's still unpredictable.
JUDY WOODRUFF: I just quickly
want to go around
the table before we wrap up and
ask each of
you about the process that these
names have
come out, that you had a
candidate for president
putting out almost two dozen
names, and now
we're down to two.
It's a prime-time news
conference.
Marcia, is this different from
the way it's
normally done?
MARCIA COYLE: Well, I think
every president
looks to certain individuals and
certain groups
for input in terms of who may
most reflect
that president's own ideology,
philosophy.
And that was no different, I
think, in this
case.
President Trump reportedly was
assisted by
the conservative Federalist
Society and the
conservative Heritage
Foundation.
In terms of the rollout, having,
we're told,
both judges at the White House
right now,
that is puzzling, different, and
I guess we
have to wait and see.
JUDY WOODRUFF: OK, 45 seconds.
Michael Carvin, is this unusual
to do it like
this?
MICHAEL CARVIN: Well, I think
President Trump
was much more specific than most
presidents
have been.
I agree with -- that normally
you're going
to give a general sense of who
to appoint, but this was a very
important
issue because of Justice
Scalia's passing,
and President Trump was very
clear about the
kind of justice he was going to
appoint.
So I think he probably has a
more specific
mandate than most of his
predecessors in terms
of who he's going to name.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Just a few
seconds.
Your thought on the process.
ELIZABETH WYDRA: Yes, I think
one of the unusual
parts of this process was that
Trump was very
clear about his litmus test.
He had three, abortion,
religious liberty,
and guns.
And normally you don't do that
because it
suggests you're guaranteeing a
vote.
So that was very unusual.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Tom Goldstein,
five seconds.
TOM GOLDSTEIN: It's usually less
of a circus
than this.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All right, Tom
Goldstein joining
us from Los Angeles, we're glad
you made it
through the traffic.
TOM GOLDSTEIN: Thanks so much.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Elizabeth Wydra,
Marcia Coyle,
and Michael Carvin, thank you
all.
MARCIA COYLE: Thanks.
ELIZABETH WYDRA: Great to be
with you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And we hope you
will join us
tomorrow night, when I sit down
with Vice
President Mike Pence at the
White House.
It will be his first television
interview
since taking office.
MILES O'BRIEN: Let's take a
different look
at the impact of the immigration
orders from
the lens of higher education.
It's the focus of our weekly
segment Making
the Grade.
There are nearly one million
international
students in U.S. colleges and
universities.
The number of students who came
from the seven
affected countries is much
smaller, about
17,000, and most of those are
from Iran.
The president's temporary ban
sparked anxiety
and protests on a number of
campuses around
the country.
Faculty and students both
expressed worries
about the wider message.
Here are some reactions, first
at the City
University of New York, or CUNY,
and then
from an Iranian student at the
University
of Alabama.
HERCULES REED, ®MD-BO-City
University of
New York: You cannot look at the
faces of
nearly half-a-million students
of CUNY without
seeing the faces and stories of
millions around
the world.
Forty percent of our CUNY
students are born
in another country.
More than half of us speak a
second language
at home.
At my campus alone, we have
students representing
over 150 countries.
MAN: I just got a postdoctoral
offer from
another U.S. university, and I'm
just worried
about my future, let alone
living in the U.S.
I'm worried that they're going
to deport me.
MILES O'BRIEN: More perspective
on these issues
now from Angel Cabrera, the
president of the
George Mason University, the
largest public
university in Virginia, serving
about 34,000
students.
Born in Madrid, Cabrera is the
first native
of Spain to lead an American
university.
Good to have you with us, Mr.
Cabrera.
ANGEL CABRERA, President, George
Mason University:
Thank you for having me.
MILES O'BRIEN: First of all,
let's talk about
your perspective as an immigrant
yourself,
having seen the university
system here from
Spain, and now on the inside.
I'm curious how that affects
your perspective
on this whole issue.
ANGEL CABRERA: Well, first of
all, the American
universities have a tremendous
advantage around
the world, because they're the
number one
place where students from all
over the world
want to study.
I was there myself.
I graduated from college from
Madrid, Spain,
and my dream was to come to one
of the great
American research universities.
And like that, there are
thousands, hundreds
of thousands of students from
around the world
every year.
MILES O'BRIEN: And the higher
education system
here really does remain a
magnet, doesn't
it?
ANGEL CABRERA: Absolutely.
And not only that gives the
American university
a great advantage, but it gives
an advantage,
also, to the American economy.
I mean, when you do the numbers
and look at,
for example, out of the recent
start-ups,
how many have reached $1 billion
or more,
about 40 percent of them have
been founded
or co-founded by a foreign-born
individual.
Most of them, by the way, come
to the U.S.
to study.
MILES O'BRIEN: My understanding
is most student
don't have green cards.
They have student visas.
ANGEL CABRERA: That's correct.
MILES O'BRIEN: Which means that
that carve-out
for green cards that we have
been talking
about the past couple of days
doesn't apply
to most of these students.
So, give us an idea of the
immediate impact
on your campus and campuses
elsewhere in the
U.S.
ANGEL CABRERA: Yes.
Well, in our case, we have 82
students who
have what we call an F-1 visa,
which is a
student visa, from those
countries.
And we have about five J-1 visa
holders, who
tend to be exchange scholars.
It could be a visiting
professor.
It could be someone getting
their Ph.D. here.
We are trying to figure out
where all of them
are.
I think we have accounted for
most of them.
We have heard, unfortunately,
from one of
our students from Libya who was
stuck in Istanbul
trying to board a plane to come
to us.
So she may have to cancel
classes this semester
and try to figure out whether
maybe she can
take some of the class online.
MILES O'BRIEN: What is your
advice to students
whether they're here or there?
ANGEL CABRERA: Well, what we're
telling our
employees, our students, our
faculty is, don't
go anywhere right now, until
it's more clear,
because if you step outside of
the United
States, you may not be able to
come back in.
That's, of course, easier said
than done.
Some of them have research
projects or they
may have even family issues that
require for
them to go outside.
Right now, we're saying, do your
best to not
leave the country.
MILES O'BRIEN: The idea,
according to the
Trump administration, is to make
things safer
for Americans.
And just this past November, a
Somali refugee,
student at Ohio State
University, had a stabbing
spree; 11 people were injured
before he was
subsequently killed.
Is there a sense among yourself
and other
college presidents that this is
a measure
that could make things safer on
campuses?
ANGEL CABRERA: Well, I don't
have the data.
I don't have the evidence.
I hope that those people who
make these decisions
may have data that really links
the presence
of those kinds of students to
national security
issues.
We don't have that kind of
evidence.
On our campus, our students from
those countries
actually have never posed a
threat of any
kind.
On the contrary, I think that
the presence
of people from all over the
world increases
the understanding of our
students.
When you're in class with people
from other
countries, you get to see the
world in a more
nuanced way.
You start to understand how
things are perceived
from other angles.
So, from my perspective, one of
the best things
that one can do to in fact
improve the understanding
and diminish the probability of
safety issues
is to create understanding, is
to engage in
scholarly exchange.
MILES O'BRIEN: It's worth
putting this, I
think, in context into the
larger economic
ecosystem.
The American university system
has a direct
link to certainly Silicon
Valley.
Lots of Silicon Valley CEOs came
to the United
States through this route
specifically.
Over time, how much of an impact
would this
have, ultimately, potentially,
on jobs in
America?
ANGEL CABRERA: Well, I think
when we talk
about immigration, most people
start thinking
immediately about low-skilled
labor.
The part that is left out, and
it shouldn't
because it's essential to the
economy of the
United States, it's the
knowledge worker.
It's the graduate student; 75
percent or more
of graduate students in
engineering and computer
science in the United States
today are immigrants.
When you look at start-ups in
technology,
some of the most innovative
companies, the
ones that all of our graduates
want to work
for, about 40 percent of those
that have achieved
$1 billion or more were founded
or co-founded
by immigrants.
If you look at scientific
achievement, 40
percent of the Nobel Prize
winners in this
country, whether it's chemistry,
medicine
and physiology or physics, about
40 percent
were born outside of the United
States.
So our science is tied to
immigration.
Our entrepreneurship is tied to
Our innovation is tied to
immigration.
MILES O'BRIEN: Angel Cabrera,
president of
George Mason University, thank
you for your
time.
ANGEL CABRERA: You're welcome.
Thank you for having me.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now we look at
efforts to change
the face of classical music, and
shake up
tradition while keeping true to
the sound.
Jeffrey Brown is our guide.
JEFFREY BROWN: An orchestra
performing with
singers.
See anything unusual?
At a recent concert by the
Dallas Opera, the
focus was on the conductors,
women conductors.
And in the still highly
traditional world
of classical music, that is
unusual.
This was the culmination of the
second annual
Hart Institute for Women
Conductors, six women
and four observers, chosen from
156 applicants
around the world, taking part in
an intensive
two-week rehearsal workshop,
combined with
sessions on how to build and
maintain a career.
KEITH CERNY, General Director,
Dallas Opera:
I have absolutely seen very
talented women
who are held back from where
they ought to
be.
JEFFREY BROWN: It's the
brainchild of Dallas
Opera general director Keith
Cerny.
KEITH CERNY: I think there are
some individuals
who are opposed to the idea of
women leaders,
whether on the podium or running
large opera
companies.
Fortunately, there aren't that
many of those
people, but there's certainly
some.
But, more generally, I think
it's an issue
where, because there's fewer
women in those
positions, search committees and
general directors
and symphony CEOs don't tend to
think so much
about hiring women for those
opportunities.
JEFFREY BROWN: It's just not
part of their
thinking?
KEITH CERNY: It's just not part
of the thinking.
JEFFREY BROWN: According to
industry data,
of the nine largest American
opera companies
by budget, none has a female
music director
and principal conductor.
And Marin Alsop in Baltimore,
who served on
the faculty at the Dallas
workshop, remains
the sole woman music director at
the nation's
24 largest orchestras.
In Dallas, Cerny hired Nicole
Paiement as
principal guest conductor, and
she played
a large role at the institute,
encouraging.
NICOLE PAIEMENT, Principal Guest
Conductor,
Dallas Opera: When you have an
idea, which
are always very, very good...
JEFFREY BROWN: Cajoling,
teaching.
NICOLE PAIEMENT: ... say one
thing and move
on.
You sort of explain it five
times, but I think
we get it the first time.
JEFFREY BROWN: Paiement runs her
own small
opera company in San Francisco,
and travels
the world performing with
orchestras.
NICOLE PAIEMENT: I know there is
that surprise
phenomenon every time I'm guest
conducting
for the first time.
They are surprised when I arrive
on the podium.
I don't have the physique.
I'm a woman.
I'm a small woman.
JEFFREY BROWN: Yes.
What do you mean?
You sense that the audience is
surprised?
NICOLE PAIEMENT: It's not the
audience, but
the musicians.
When I arrive, I can feel that
they are like,
oh, OK, that's our conductor.
And it's a little bit of a
surprise.
It can be refreshing.
JEFFREY BROWN: But do you have
-- does that
make you have to prove yourself,
or...
NICOLE PAIEMENT: I have -- no,
not at all,
because they see what I'm doing
on the podium
is not there to be a leader and
to be the
boss and to be -- but to make
music as a collaborative
art form.
And, you know, the art of
conducting has changed
a great deal.
The era of the tyrant on the
podium...
JEFFREY BROWN: Right, that
stereotype.
NICOLE PAIEMENT: That stereotype
is long gone.
JEFFREY BROWN: Romanian
conductor Mihaela
Cesa-Goje recalls something she
learned from
one of her mentors.
MIHAELA CESA-GOJE, Conductor:
Marin Alsop
is giving a very, very good
example.
So, if a woman goes and conducts
with her
hand like that, everybody,
maybe, they might
say, oh, that's such a girly
thing.
But if a man does that, he's so
sensitive.
So, I think it's a lot of
question of perception,
how people are looking.
But I try not to focus so much
on this, because
if I'm thinking about this every
day, then
you just don't do anything.
JEFFREY BROWN: That was what we
heard from
others here as well, including
the youngest
participant, 26-year-old Tianyi
Lu, who grew
up in New Zealand, love the
music, embrace
the work, and focus on how to
get better.
But they're all used to being a
outnumbered
in this world.
TIANYI LU, Conductor: It's just
a different
dynamic.
I have been in master classes
where I'm the
only girl, and I think...
JEFFREY BROWN: And what happens?
TIANYI LU: Well, certain things
have happened.
But I think, for me, it's more
to do with,
sometimes, it's very easy for
everyone to
pretend like they're really
confident, whereas
I don't think I'm the sort of
person who can
pretend as well as others.
So, I actually need real
confidence, and that
comes with time in front of the
orchestra,
time with people who are
experienced giving
me their suggestions, their
support and encouragement.
And, for me, that's the
important thing.
JEFFREY BROWN: Time in front of
a prestigious
ensemble is key to the
institute.
For a conductor, the orchestra
is her instrument.
Rehearsals were augmented by
one-on-one sessions
with more seasoned conductors,
including Italian
conductor Carlo Montanaro.
But is there something that a
conductor has
to have, you know, that you must
have to be
a good -- what makes a great
conductor?
CARLO MONTANARO, Conductor:
Charisma.
JEFFREY BROWN: Charisma?
CARLO MONTANARO: Knowledge,
technique, being
true on the podium, not fake
yourself on the
podium, don't make a show,
believe in the
music that you're conducting.
JEFFREY BROWN: Do you see
differences in women
and men conductors?
CARLO MONTANARO: No, zero.
JEFFREY BROWN: Zero.
CARLO MONTANARO: I see a
musician.
I don't treat them women, men.
No.
JEFFREY BROWN: Off the podium,
there were
other very practical lessons, on
building
a resume and networking, whether
and how to
hire an agent, and developing
executive leadership
skills, in order to one day move
into upper
management.
WOMAN: We really have to do our
homework.
We really have to educate
ourselves if we
are going to be in this field.
You will most likely be the
musical director
of an orchestra.
And you will have understand
about all of
that.
You are going to have to deal
with a board.
And the board is going to talk
to you about
numbers, right?
JEFFREY BROWN: American
Elizabeth Askren has
guest conducted in many leading
European venues
and, like the others here, is
hoping one day
to be a music director.
She saw the institute as a great
opportunity
for learning with and from other
women.
ELIZABETH ASKREN, Conductor:
It's a safe space
for us to treat some of those
issues, some
of which are just, you know,
common, everyday
things, like questions that all
conductors
have to face.
And then there are some issues
to explore
that may pertain to women.
The fact that the numbers are
rather low in
positions of directorship in
opera, why is
that?
Can we talk about that?
JEFFREY BROWN: The Dallas Opera
has made a
20-year commitment to this
institute.
I asked general director Keith
Cerny how he
will judge success.
KEITH CERNY: It would be
terrific to think
that, 20 years from now, this
whole issue
will have gone away, and men and
women will
be equally evaluated for
positions on the
podium.
I think that may be a little
optimistic, but
what I want...
JEFFREY BROWN: You do?
KEITH CERNY: I do,
unfortunately, because,
there's been no improvement.
It's been static for 25 years.
I think it is starting to
improve, slowly.
JEFFREY BROWN: From Dallas, I'm
Jeffrey Brown
for the "PBS NewsHour."
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, you know
what I think.
We need more women conductors.
MILES O'BRIEN: Said the maestra
of news.
(LAUGHTER)
MILES O'BRIEN: All right.
I agree.
And that's it for the "NewsHour"
tonight.
I'm Miles O'Brien.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And I'm Judy
Woodruff.
Join us right here at 8:00 p.m.
Eastern for
special live coverage of
President Trump's
Supreme Court pick.
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," thank
you, and we will see you soon.